I’ve only just discovered this sub and wanted to share my experience with a UFO sighting off the North West coast of Tasmania but I don’t have any photos/videos and can’t recall the exact date. At the time I didn’t realise what I was seeing and didn’t understand the magnitude because I was young- I kick myself now when I realise the missed opportunity I had to record this or tell authorities or something, but as it happened I was in a state of shock. This experience has never left me and I still remember it like it was yesterday.

I was 15 years old and working at a fast food restaurant in a town called Burnie, on the northwest coast of Tasmania, it must have been 2010. I would work until closing time and would leave around 10:30pm- it was a school night. But I didn’t live in Burnie, I lived in a town that was 20 minutes away, called Penguin.

My dad had picked me up because I didn’t have a car or license. The entire road home is at the edge of the ocean, the only thing separating you from the water is a metal road barrier, a small cliff face, and rocks. It was so close that as a kid I would be scared that we’d have a car crash and go flying into the ocean. There are huge stretches of road with no houses around at all, just nature and the ocean. It’s a beautiful scenic drive. We were on one of those stretches when the encounter happened- just us in a car, with no one else around and no houses.

We were half way home, somewhere between Chasm Creek and Howth, when I noticed a gigantic ship that seemed to be glowing orange, was so close to the shore that I immediately started yelling at my dad. “What the hell? Is that a ship? It’s so close to the rocks dad, it’s going to crash!!”. But he couldn’t even respond- we were both staring at this thing trying to figure out what exactly we were looking at, almost hypnotised.

It appeared in the shape of a regular cruise ship but was glowing orange so brightly that you couldn’t see any detail and it was huge. We could tell this wasn’t normal- as what ship glows orange? you could imagine maybe some lights coming from windows, but not the entire thing. It was so close I felt like at any second it was going to hit the rocks and capsize, yet our eyes couldn’t focus on it properly even though we were so close to it. It felt like time stood still while we stared in silence. I think only a few seconds must have went by in reality, when all of a sudden the ship zoomed back out into the ocean away from the shore. It went way out into the deeper water in less than a second. Like a couple hundred of meters by the time you blinked. We could still see the glowing orange ship out in the distance, when it appeared to stop moving, morph into a smaller semi-circle (still glowing orange), and fly upwards.

It went straight up into the air and within another second, it was gone. I couldn’t believe what I had just seen. My dad and I were in such shock that we literally couldn’t talk and didn’t say a single word to each other the rest of the way home, it felt like a dream. I’m surprised he didn’t crash the car while this was going on. We got home, i went to bed, and I felt like I was in a trance. Not once did I check my phone, which was unusual for a teenager when I think back. I think my mind was trying to go into survival mode and push the thought away because I’m a highly anxious person and to be honest it was almost traumatising to witness. It freaked me the hell out.

I haven’t been in contact with my dad since around 2011 as we had a falling out, but I still think that if I messaged him right now to ask about that ship, he would confirm it with me again. I have told this story to countless people but have never put it on the record publicly, so this is it. Every fibre of my body knows what we saw that night was a UFO and I wish that I had video proof because I had a mobile phone with me at the time, but was frozen and all I could do was watch in horror.

For a long time it made me extremely uncomfortable thinking about this moment, because it would terrify me thinking about what could have happened. But I kept telling my experience to people because I want to spread the word about it, I’ve never known anyone else in my life who could share a similar experience. People probably thought I’m crazy and making it up, but I don’t care. I rather people think I’m crazy than keep quiet about this, when I know deep in my heart that UFOs are real and not just in sci-fi movies. There is absolutely nothing else that can explain what I saw that night. It wasn’t some tiny little dot in the sky that could have been a star or a satellite, or a Chinese lantern- it was huge, fast, and right in front of me in the ocean, and then the sky.

Edited to add that when I say it morphed into a semi-circle, the bottom of the ship/UFO was the rounded section, and the top of it was flat as it flew off into the sky.

And I was just looking up shapes to figure out what the shape of the ship/ufo was called when it was close to the shore and looked like a cruise ship. The shape of it was like an upside down trapezoid.