Adjustments made to calculations during the analysis are described below.

The “missing_extracted” variable was adjusted during the entity matching process to account for the occurrences of multi-token entities. An example of why this was necessary is as follows: Incrementing the true positive total twice for two annotated tokens that were represented by only one NER identified token would have artificially inflated the true positives total. Therefore, the script only incremented true positives once if the NER entity had already been seen (i.e., processed in the loop). Moreover, in this scenario, the false negatives total was also decremented by one for each annotated entity that fell within the character bounds of the NER identified token. This was because although only one token was found by NER, all of those associated annotated entities had nevertheless been accounted for – ergo false negatives should not be registered.

Likewise, in situations where one annotated entity was represented by two or more NER identified tokens, the false negative count was incremented accordingly - once for every additional NER identified token that fell within the character bounds of the annotated entity. This was done to mitigate the situation whereby the calculation for the false negative total would have been artificially deflated, owing to the inclusion of multiple true positives that were not represented by an equal number of annotated tokens. Had this mitigation not been implemented, the extra true positives would have impacted the false negatives calculation – namely, the difference between true positives and the total of extracted entities. It was decided that the extra true positives should be counted as such for this analysis – as they were correctly identified by NER, albeit in multi-token form, however the matching adjustment to the false negative count was necessary to preserve the calculation’s integrity in terms of identifying the total of annotated entities that were not detected by NER.
